---
title: 'Getting and Cleaning Data: Assignment Deliverabes'
output:
  html_document:
    keep_md: yes
---

#Project Purpose

The purpose of this project is to fulfill the [requirements specified for the "Getting and Cleaning Data Course Project"](https://www.coursera.org/learn/data-cleaning/peer/FIZtT/getting-and-cleaning-data-course-project). Specifically, this project generates a new [tidy data set](http://vita.had.co.nz/papers/tidy-data.pdf) that contains the averaged Mean and Standard Deviation measurements over each unique combination of subject and activity from the [data set](https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip) provided by the [Human Activity Recognition Using Smartphones](http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones) project.

***

#Project Contents

The data set for this project includes the following:


####UCI HAR Dataset

This folder contains a full copy of the data set referenced above and the data within it serves as the input data for this project. The *README.txt* and *features_info.txt* files located in this folder provide a detailed description of the structure and contents of the source data.  A full description is also available at the [site hosting the data](http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones).


####run_analysis.R

This script performs the following tasks outlined in the assignment:

1. Merges the training and the test data sets to create one data set.
        
2. Extracts only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement.
        
3. Uses descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set
        
4. Appropriately labels the data set with descriptive variable names
	
5. Creates a new, independent tidy data set from step 4 containing the average (or mean) of each Mean and Standard Deviation variable for each activity by subject. For clarity, any variable with a name containing the substrings of 'mean' or 'std' (in full lowercase) is included. 
        
6. Saves that tidy data set to a text file named *HAR_mean_and_std_variables_averaged_by_subject_and_activity.txt*
        
7. Loads the *HAR_mean_and_std_variables_averaged_by_subject_and_activity.txt* file into the *df.tidy.data* variable within the current workspace. This is done solely to simplify the process of reviewing the new, independent tidy data set that is a required assignment deliverable.

        
####HAR_mean_and_std_variables_averaged_by_subject_and_activity.txt

This file contains the tidy data set generated by this project's *run_analysis.R* script as instructed by the course assignment. Please refer to the *CodeBook.md* file for a description of the data and variables represented in this tidy data set.


####load_averaged_tidy_data.R

This script is provided as a convenience to reviewers.  It may be used to load the new, independent tidy data set into the current workspace without having to execute the *run_analysis.R* script to re-run the instructions that created it.

***

#Project Output

This project generates a new, tidy data set and saves it in the *HAR_mean_and_std_variables_averaged_by_subject_and_activity.txt* file.
As mentioned above, please refer to the *CodeBook.md* file for a description of the data and variables represented in this tidy data set. 

***

For more information about this dataset contact: brett.hodges@conocophillips.com

